
About Me
(Image of me on the stone bridge)
I am Sharla Dawn Robinson Ng.  Welcome to my website.  I believe one of the most import gifts I can share is awareness - awareness of internal experiences and of imagination’s power to generate new possibilities in any given moment.  The journey I’ve chosen to take is one of becoming more connected to the deeper world within and around me.   Whether it is recognizing beauty, evolving an identity, or rebelling against notions that hinder human freedom, my goal is to offer connections that will assist you to make positive connections in your life too.  

    •  More about me
(New photo of me)
My formal education is in English and law.  My work experience includes researching and writing judicial opinions, as well as human resource materials.  My family is multi-cultural, Chinese-American.  I have lived mostly in Boise, Idaho, U.S.A.  Jeongja is near Seoul, S Korea, and it's where my family and I lived for 18 months before the COVID pandemic of 2020. 

About My Books
Forthcoming
(Image of my view from Time Bridge)
American Woman Suspended is expected to be complete in 2023.  Based on my internal thoughts about living in S Korea, I offer insights into what it means to be a human living between worlds.  Whether embarking on a long-term business assignment like my family did in 2018, or serving military or ambassador assignments, or even immigrating out of one country to another, this book will frame the cultural transition experience though five psychological phases and prepare you and your family for the move away from home and, surprisingly, for the cultural shift involved when back.

    • Previous Books
(Image of Cover of AQWS – NOTE:  the current AQWS cover image on the SD website draft is the wrong one!)
A Quiet Wind Speaks
“REVIEW?”
Through 43 poems that explore a variety of subjects including nature, social justice, emigration and immigration, relationships, art, and aging, the Live Poets speak as one supportive community.  Three short essays suggest how diverse and varied writers may not only endure but also thrive! 
This unpredictable anthology is authored by nine Live Poets. Their spirit of collaboration is exemplified by the poems’ unique presentation on the page.  Poets’ names don’t appear until the final pages of the book.  This arrangement focuses the reader’s attention on the continuity of the sequence of poems rather than on the authorship of the poems.  Readers will also discover an elegant give-and-take model of communication in the Preface and the Editor’s Remarks.  The imaginative reader may decide to apply this communication model in any community.
These poets have broadly based interests and backgrounds, including three public school teachers, a retired pastor whose youth was spent in New Guinea, a former professor of culture and literacy, a former global nomad who is also a lawyer, a scientist who is also a jeweler, a retired Executive Director of the Idaho Zoological Society, and a Jamaican caregiver who recently became a naturalized US citizen.  Also included are the poems of two Live Poets who are deceased—one a former investment firm’s operations manager and the other a former Idaho State Supreme Court justice.
Cohesive for over 25 years, the Live Poets Society has given readings at libraries, bookstores, an art museum and a theater in Boise, Idaho, USA.  Through public readings and publications, the Live Poets strive to encourage an appreciation of poetry within the community.

(Image Folding/Unfolding)
Folding/Unfolding
“Review by Kelli Brown?”
Dance is the first art I ever loved.  Its essence is energy, the lightness of being.  Poetry — the art of dancing with thoughts and words —sustains me in my middle years.  When Kelli proposed a dance/poetry collaboration responding to the Boise Art Museum’s origami exhibit, I felt she was on to something good.  Time, like our 30-year friendship. Would tell.  Kelli began enthusiastically offering many possibilities to perform and display poetry with her choreography:  readings, paper print, even screen projections.  Sketches of Angela Rockefeller’s costumes appeared.  Poets observed dance rehearsal video clips.  And the poetry began to surface.  When the Boise Art Museum’s International collection of origami came to town, poets attended.  More poems surfaced.  As poets watched dance rehearsals, more poems came to light.  Although not every Live Poet contributed responsive works, everyone gave feedback on early drafts and encouragement.  Jamie Armstrong’s measured approach and good judgement served us all.  He guided our collaboration on this book.  And his spontaneous back-stage yo-yo performance delighted and untied the entire dance-poetry crew out of pre-performance jitters the night we sold out at the Boise Art Museum.  Finally, I knew we’d done something good when the children from Valley View Elementary folded 1000 cranes for the spring shows at the Boise Contemporary Theatre.  They wished that the sick may be healed.  Based on this project’s history, the odds are favorable.  

About My Poetry
(Image of my pearl)
I Wonder. . .


I wonder. . .
if identity
might have a belly button.

Is the pearl of me
(surrounded by exterior, shell and muscle)
tethered to something silent?
something essential and everywhere?

Watching events take shape
safely accepting decay and evolution
this pearl could turn a world
inside out.

This poem surprised me.  It arrived and it was not until I read it to the Poets that its generative qualities became recognizable.  One member of The Live Poets Society took the time to think it through and explain the numerous connections a reader might discover, connections that go beyond what I had intended. So far, this is my most humbling poetic experience.   

But the last word about my poetry shall not be mine; it’s one of William Blake’s famous proverbs.  Blake understood the human imagination serves a uniquely generative purpose in the universe.  I think this proverb is pure delight:  

“Eternity is in love the productions of time.”










Brand – 
Colours –turquoise, forrest green, beige/cream, Charcole,
Values – authentic responses, balance, equality
Associations – literature, writing, humanities, law, education
Wisdom I have to share – multiculturalism and humanism that brings people together.

Interviewee List – Jamie, Maggie, Vera, Dwight Edwards, Kelli, The Cabin?, ISB?

