Editor’s Remarks by Sharla Dawn

One special element of the Live Poets’ group process is its communication model.  We call it “give-and-take.”  Key aspects of the “give-and-take” communication model are evident in the ways in which A Quiet Wind Speaks came into being.  
Consensus played a large part in this book’s formation.  In our work, we have consistently valued one another’s spirit of collaboration as we discussed issues based on their merits, not on the basis of which person brought the idea to the group.  During meetings, the whole group participated in every phase of the book, from defining content to choosing the cover design.  
Diversity and openness to fresh influences played vital roles in building this book.  Poets, who hail from many walks of life, submitted poems on a wide range of subjects.  All of the members, from one founder to three newly found poets, contributed to the creation of this book.  For example, our newest poet initiated and organized a reading at Rediscovered Books in which we announced the book’s title and gave a preview reading of our poems from this collection.  
Democratic principles also informed our book, especially the title selection process.  Every poet voted in every title election.  After the selection process, which took four ballots over the course of two weeks, A Quiet Wind Speaks surfaced from a preliminary list of 55 titles.  
While building this book, members freely offered their talent.  Editing the manuscript with the assistance of Margaret Koger and Jamie Armstrong was a delight for me because we’ve combined our strengths and backgrounds for the good of the whole project.  Margaret proceeded efficiently with the confidence of a widely published poet.  Jamie, our professorial and founding member, made countless considered editorial contributions.  Maggie and Jamie, along with our long-time member, Vera Noyce, carefully advised and guided individual poets at crucial times as well.  Cover design was also selected by vote.  The green girl-woman design you see near the final blue book cover is just one of several alternatives created by members of the group.

Vital to the building of A Quiet Wind Speaks has been the support of the people and organizations who helped our writers’ group thrive over time.  We honor the memory of Bill Studebaker, who gave us the motivation and encouragement to publish our poetry.  Except during the pandemic era, two organizations have offered their enduring hospitality.  The Cabin has hosted our in-person meetings for more than 20 years.  And, the Garden City Public Library has been our reading home for National Poetry Month for 11 years.  
Finally, the Live Poets Society is grateful for the community members who have regularly attended our readings and performances.  From the poets’ give-and-take process during workshop meetings and from the consistent presence of an audience at readings, we have woven the tapestry of community embodied in this book. 


